---
layout: 2023_post
title: Policies
cover: policies.jpg
categories: posts
permalink: /2023/policies
---

## Meetings and Recitations
Lecture occurs twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays) from 1:00 - 2:25 pm in the Baxter lecture hall. These sessions will involve lecture and in-class participation
including back-of-the-envelope estimations, derivations, and natural
philosophy. This course is designed to serve as an overview of some of the
overarching principles of biological inquiry and address how biology fits in
along physics, chemistry, mathematics, and engineering.

Recitation sessions are held once a week. These occur in the evening on
Mondays through Thursdays and on Friday afternoons. These sessions are held
with graduate and undergraduate teaching assistants and are designed to aid you
on problem sets and further explain the topics covered in class.

Computational prowess is an incredibly useful skill in the modern biological
era. Many homework problems will require you to write computer programs to
execute  calculations, analyze experimental data, perform simulations, and
more. No prior computer programming experience is required for this course. The
TA's will host computational tutorial sessions five times during the course and
will take place during normal recitation times and locations. While many programming
languages are used in biology (R, C++, Java, Matlab, etc), Python will be the
language of instruction for this course. Please see the [programming page]({{
site.baseurl }}/programming) for instructions on setting up a scientific Python
computing environment.

## Grading, Attendance, and Electronic Devices

There will be no exams, quizzes, reports, or research proposals. Your entire grade comes from completing the homework. Homework is assigned on Thursdays and will be due the following Thursday at 1:00 pm. **Late homework submissions (submitted after 1:00 pm on the date due) will not be accepted without penalty.** For each day an assignment is late, a 10% deduction will be made from the maximum possible score, beginning immediately after your homework is due. This means that if your homework is handed in at 2:00 pm on the day it is due, your maximum possible score is 90%. A submission received four days late will maximally earn 50%. For exceptions, see "Absences, Extensions, and Ditch Day" below.

Regular attendance is an expectation for all students in the class. As a general rule, "on time" means that you are sitting in the class room five minutes early.

You may use an electronic device (e.g. tablet, laptop) to take notes during class only if you use it for this purpose. We will ask you to turn off your electronic devices (or ask you to leave) if their use is off-topic or distracting to others.

## Homework Submissions

To ensure proper grading, all homework must be submitted via email to `bi1.caltech@gmail.com` and adhere to the following conventions:
- The subject of your email must have the following format: `[Homework #] Submission for Firstname Lastname`.
- The submission must be a `.zip` file with the filename `lastname_firstname_hw#.zip`.
  - This file should contain the text and/or code solutions to the assignment.
  - For text solutions, include a PDF with the filename `lastname_firstname_hw#.pdf`. (Formats such as `.docx` and `.pages` will _not_ be accepted.)
  - For code, include a Jupyter Notebook with the filename `lastname_firstname_hw#.ipynb`, along with any images used in the Notebook. If you write your entire homework in a Notebook, you do not need to submit a PDF as well.

For example, Barbara McClintock would submit her first homework set via an email with the subject `[Homework 1] Submission for Barbara McClintock`, with an attachment called `McClintock_Barbara_hw1.zip` containing the files `McClintock_Barbara_hw1.pdf`, `McClintock_Barbara_hw1.ipynb`, and any images used in her `.ipynb` document. 

### Any submission that does not completely adhere to this format will not be graded.

## Homework Regrades

If you are interested in challenging the way your homework was graded, you may request a regrade. Regrades are subject to the following conditions:
- You are limited to 2 regrade requests total over course of the term.
- Each regrade request applies to one assignment. In other words, if you ask for a regrade, your entire homework will be subjected to the same high level of scrutiny you have requested for the problem you feel was not graded properly. Keep in mind that this could result in a net reduction in your grade on that particular assignment if your previous marks on other problems are adjusted.
- Regrade requests may also be used for grading of homeworks that were submitted improperly.

To request a regrade, email `bi1.caltech@gmail.com` with the following subject line:

`[Homework #] Regrade Request for Firstname Lastname`

## Collaboration Policy and the Honor Code

Collaboration is imperative to scientific discovery. You may work with others on your homework assignments, but **all work handed in must be your own**. This means that you are not allowed to hand in work copy-pasted from those you worked with.

For programming, please follow the [50 foot rule from
CS11](http://courses.cms.caltech.edu/cs11/material/python/collab.html), which
reads:

> [...] If you help another student with their programming problems
(including debugging), you must not consult your own code while doing so.
Specifically, we ask that your own code be at least 50 feet away i.e. not
visible to you or the person you are helping while you are helping them. This
means that you may work with each other on programming problems but you may not
copy others code directly. [...] **Help them with your brain, not with your
code**.

You may use resources on the internet, primary literature, or textbooks to help
you answer questions, although you must provide a reference. You may not
use previous homework questions or solutions from previous years of this course
or others like it.

Finally, you must follow the [Caltech Honor Code](https://www.gradoffice.caltech.edu/current/hc) at all times. As a reminder, this states:

> No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any other member of the Caltech community.

We have designed the computational sections to provide you with all of the
information you need to complete the problems described in the homework. While
you may use any of the code provided in the tutorials to solve your
homework, please do not copy-paste it directly into your notebook. This is a good way to learn absolutely nothing. Instead, type out the code by hand and ensure you understand what each line actually does. Plus, we will often use different variable names or hardcoded values in tutorials that will be incompatible with your homework assignments.

## Communication
You may contact the course TAs via email at any time, but please don't be spammy. In most cases, emailing _your_ TA is preferable to emailing a head TA, which is preferable to emailing Rob. Use your best judgment.

<!-- The course [Piazza](http://piazza.com/caltech/spring2017/bi1) can be used for
general questions. You may discuss homework and post public questions about
problems, topics, or things of general interest to the Bi1 students and course
staff. You may also post questions anonymously. The course TAs will monitor
this page with regularity and will respond to valid inquiries. -->

## Absences, Extensions, and Ditch Day
Homework extensions or absences will only be granted with an adequate reason (e.g. a note from a doctor or dean).

In the event that Ditch Day falls on the day that an assignment is due, the deadline will be extended by two calendar days (i.e., if Ditch Day is on a Thursday when a problem set is due, then the revised due date will be Saturday at 1:00 pm). Any course meetings affected by Ditch Day will be resecheduled and posted on the [homepage]({{ site.baseurl }}/2023/index).
