---
layout: 2023_post
title: Readings
cover: readings.jpg
categories: posts
permalink: /2023/readings
---

## In-Class Readings
There is so much fascinating biology to explore --- far more than we could ever cover in a single quarter of an introductory course. Instead, we will often point you to excellent readings that serve as opportunities to continue your adventure your own way. We will list them here as the course progresses.

Interacting with these readings is optional, but all of them are relevant to class (and worth your time).

{% assign readings = site.data.2023.papers %}

{% for week in readings %}
### {{ week[0] }}

{% for p in week[1] %}
{% assign dir = "http://rpdata.caltech.edu/courses/bi1_2023/protected/" %}
{% if p.link != None %}
{% assign dir = p.link %}
[{{ p.title }}]({{ p.link }}) by {{ p.author }} *{{ p.journal }}* ({{ p.year }}). {{ p.description }}
{% elsif p.PDF != None %}
[{{ p.title }}]({{ dir }}{{ p.PDF }}) by {{ p.author }} *{{ p.journal }}* ({{ p.year }}). {{ p.description }}
{% else %}
{{p.title}} by {{ p.author }} *{{ p.journal }}* ({{ p.year }}). {{ p.description }}
{% endif %}
{% endfor %}
{% endfor %}


## External Resources
Links to external databases and other resources that you may find helpful during the course.

* [The Human Impacts Database](https://anthroponumbers.org/). This website has a variety of useful numbers that will be helpful either in formulating or checking our estimates about the interactions of humans with the flora and fauna that surround us, as well as the oceans, the land, and the atmosphere.

* [The BioNumbers Database](https://bionumbers.hms.harvard.edu/search.aspx). An incredibly handy collection of numbers from the molecular and cell biology literature.

* [Street-Fighting Mathematics: The Art of Educated Guessing and Opportunistic Problem Solving](https://sept.mit.edu/sites/default/files/Streetfighting%20Mathematics.pdf). This excellent free book by Sanjoy Mahajan (a Caltech alum!) teaches order-of-magnitude estimation in the same style that we will employ throughout the course. Essential reading for those curious to explore more advanced techniques than those we will cover.