---
layout: post
title: policies
cover: policies.jpg
categories: posts
---

## Meetings and Recitations
Lecture occurs twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays) from 1:00 - 2:25 pm in
100 Broad. These sessions will involve lecture and in-class participation including back-of-the-envelope estimations, derivations, and natural philosophy. This course is
designed to serve as an overview of some of the overarching principles of
biological inquiry and address how biology fits in along physics, chemistry, mathematics, and engineering.

Recitation sessions are held once a week. These occur in the evening on
Monday's through Thursdays and on Friday afternoons. These sessions are held with graduate and undergraduate teaching assistants and are designed to aid you on problem sets and further explain the topics covered in class. On several occasions, you will be able to engage in performing experiments and analyzing your data.

Computational prowess is an incredibly useful skill in the modern biological
era. Many homework problems will require you to write computer programs to
execute   calculations, analyze experimental data, perform simulations, and
more. No prior computer programming experience is required for this course. The
TA's will host computational tutorial sessions three to four times during the
course and will take place on Mondays from 7:00 to 10:00 pm in 100 Broad. On
weeks where these tutorials take place, recitation will not occur. While many
programming languages are used in biology (R, C++, Java, Matlab, etc), Python
will be the language of instruction for this course. Please see the
[programming page]() for instructions on setting up a scientific Python
computing environment.

## Homework
Homework will be assigned at the beginning of each week and will be due the following week at the beginning of class. **All homework submissions are electronic and must be in PDF (text) or `.ipynb` (code) format. Formats such as `.docx` and `.pages` will not be accepted.**

To ensure proper grading, all homework must be submitted via email to `xxx [at] caltech [dot] edu` with the following filename:

  * **`lastname_firstname_hw#.pdf`** or **`lastname_firstname_hw#_prob#.ipynb`** for
  problems requiring code.

The subject line of your submission email must have the following format:

  * **`Submission of HW# for Lastname Firstname`**

## Collaboration Policy and the Honor Code

Nearly all of scientific discovery has developed due to collaboration. You may work with others on your homework assignments, however **all work handed in must be your own**. This means that you are not allowed to hand in work copy pasted from those you worked with.

For programming, please follow the [50 foot rule from CS11](http://courses.cms.caltech.edu/cs11/material/python/collab.html) which reads
> [...] If you help another student with their programming problems (including debugging), you must not consult your own code while doing so. Specifically, we ask that your own code be at least 50 feet away i.e. not visible to you or the person you are helping while you are helping them.
This means that you may work with each other on programming problems but you may not copy others code directly. [...] **Help them with your brain, not with your code**.

You may use resources on the internet, primary literature, or textbooks to help you answer the questions, although you must provide a reference. You may not use previous homework questions or solutions from previous years of this course or other courses like it.

Finally, you must follow the [Caltech honor code](https://www.gradoffice.caltech.edu/current/hc) which states

> No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any other member of the Caltech community.


## Grading and Attendance

There will be no exams, quizzes, reports, or research proposals. The entirety of your grade comes from completing the homework. **Late homework submissions will not be accepted without penalty**. For each day a homework assignment is late, a 10% deduction will be made from the maximum possible score. For example, a homework received five days late will maximally earn 50%.

Attendance is expected of all students in the class. As a general rule "on time" means that you are sitting in the class room five minutes early.


## Communication
You may contact the course TAs through email at any time, but please do not unnecessarily 'spam' them with emails. Each graduate TA will be the 'expert' on one or two particular topics throughout the course. Please use them as a primary contact for that topic.


## Absences and extensions
No absence or extension on homework will be grated without an adequate and compelling reason. All extensions must be requested from the course instructor.
