---
layout: post
title: About
cover: about_blank.png
categories: posts
permalink: about
---
# Bi 1 - Principles of Biology

## About
A host of new technologies have led to an explosion of fascinating data across
the hierarchy of biology, from molecules to ecosystems, as well as the
integration of biology with other sciences, including geology, physics,
chemistry and mathematics. This course provides an introduction to the most
exciting themes of modern biology through a series of case studies. Each of
these examples, whether the examination of the critical role of keystone
species in ecology or the resolution of key puzzles of modern biogeography
using DNA sequencing or the advent of super resolution microscopy which
provides an astonishing dynamic view of cells and the viruses that infect them,
serves to demonstrate the overarching principles of modern biology.


## Where and When?
The course will be composed of two lecture sessions and one recitation per
week. Occasionally, there will be a computational tutorial session in lieu of
recitation.

**Lecture \|** Tuesdays & Thursdays, 1:00pm - 2:25pm in Baxter Lecture Hall

**Recitations \|** Monday, Tuesday, Thursday; 7:00pm - 7:55pm & 8:00 - 8:55pm in Broad 200<br/>
**<span style="color: #fafbfc;">Recitations</span> \|** Fridays, 1:00-1:55 pm and 2:00 - 2:55pm in BBB 101

**Office Hours \|** Sundays, 3:00pm - 4:00pm and 6:00 - 8:00pm  in Broad 100.
**<span style="color: #fafbfc;">Office Hours</span> \|** Mondays, 4:00pm - 5:00pm and 9:00 - 11:00pm  in Broad 100.<br />
**<span style="color: #fafbfc;">Office Hours</span> \|** Tuesdays, 9:00pm - 11:00pm in Broad 100.<br />
**<span style="color: #fafbfc;">Office Hours</span> \|** Wednesdays, 2:30 - 3:30pm in Broad 159.<br />
**<span style="color: #fafbfc;">Office Hours</span> \|** Wednesdays, 7:00pm - 9:00pm in Broad 100.<br />
