---
layout: post
title: policies
cover: policies.jpg
categories: posts
permalink: policies
---

## Meetings and Recitations
Lecture occurs twice a week (Tuesdays and Thursdays) from 1:00 - 2:25 pm in the Baxter lecture hall. These sessions will involve lecture and in-class participation
including back-of-the-envelope estimations, derivations, and natural
philosophy. This course is designed to serve as an overview of some of the
overarching principles of biological inquiry and address how biology fits in
along physics, chemistry, mathematics, and engineering.

Recitation sessions are held once a week. These occur in the evening on
Mondays through Thursdays and on Friday afternoons. These sessions are held
with graduate and undergraduate teaching assistants and are designed to aid you
on problem sets and further explain the topics covered in class.

Computational prowess is an incredibly useful skill in the modern biological
era. Many homework problems will require you to write computer programs to
execute  calculations, analyze experimental data, perform simulations, and
more. No prior computer programming experience is required for this course. The
TA's will host computational tutorial sessions five times during the course and
will take place during normal recitation times and locations. While many programming
languages are used in biology (R, C++, Java, Matlab, etc), Python will be the
language of instruction for this course. Please see the [programming page]({{
site.baseurl }}/programming) for instructions on setting up a scientific Python
computing environment.

## Homework
Homework will be assigned on Thursdays will be due the following Thursday at
the beginning of class. All homework submissions are electronic and must be in
PDF (text) or `.ipynb` (code) format within a `.zip` file. Formats such as
`.docx` and `.pages` will not be accepted. If you are writing your entire
homework in the Jupyter notebook, you may submit it as a `.ipynb` file only.
You do not need to convert it to PDF.


To ensure proper grading, all homework must be submitted via email to `bi1.caltech [at] gmail [dot] com` with the following filename:

  * **`lastname_firstname_hw#.pdf`** or **`lastname_firstname_hw#.ipynb`** for
  problems requiring code.

The subject line of your submission email must have the following format:

  * **`[Homework #] Submission of HW# for Firstname Lastname`**

For example, a submission for the first homework set would be submitted by
email with the subject line **`[Homework 1] Submission of HW1 for Barbara
McClintock`**. The attachment would be  **`McClintock_Barbara_hw1.zip`** containing the files **`McClintock_Barbara_hw1.pdf`** and
**`McClintock_Barbara_hw1.ipynb`** and any image files used in the `.ipynb` document.

**Any submission not abiding by this format will not be graded!**


## Collaboration Policy and the Honor Code

Collaboration is imperative to scientific discovery. You may work with others on your homework assignments, however **all work handed in must be your own**. This means that you are not allowed to hand in work copy pasted from those you worked with.

For programming, please follow the [50 foot rule from
CS11](http://courses.cms.caltech.edu/cs11/material/python/collab.html) which
reads

> [...] If you help another student with their programming problems
(including debugging), you must not consult your own code while doing so.
Specifically, we ask that your own code be at least 50 feet away i.e. not
visible to you or the person you are helping while you are helping them. This
means that you may work with each other on programming problems but you may not
copy others code directly. [...] **Help them with your brain, not with your
code**.

You may use resources on the internet, primary literature, or textbooks to help
you answer the questions, although you must provide a reference. You may not
use previous homework questions or solutions from previous years of this course
or other courses like it.

Finally, you must follow the [Caltech honor code](https://www.gradoffice.caltech.edu/current/hc) which states

> No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any other member of the Caltech community.

We have designed the computational sections to provide you with all of the
information you need to complete the problems described in the homework. While
you may use any of the code provided in the tutorials verbatim to solve your
homework, please do not "copy-and-paste" it directly into your notebook. We
will often use different variable names and some hard-coded numbers in the
tutorials than you will use in your homework. To make sure you understand what
each line of the code is actually doing, you should type it out by hand.


## Grading, Attendance, and Electronic Devices

There will be no exams, quizzes, reports, or research proposals. The entirety
of your grade comes from completing the homework. **Late homework submissions
(submitted after 1:00 pm on the due date) will not be accepted without penalty**. For each day a homework assignment is
late, a 10% deduction will be made from the maximum possible score, beginning
immediately after the homework is due. This means that if your homework is
handed at 2:00 on the day it is due, the maximum possible score is 90%. If a
homework is received four days late will maximally earn 50%. Attendance is
expected of all students in the class. As a general rule "on time" means that
you are sitting in the class room five minutes early.


You may use an electronic device (e.g., tablet, laptop) to take notes during class only if you use it for this purpose. We will ask you to turn off your electronic devices or ask you to leave, if their use is off-topic or distracting to others.

## Communication
You may contact the course TAs through email at any time, but please do not
unnecessarily 'spam' them with emails.

The course [Piazza](http://piazza.com/caltech/spring2017/bi1) can be used for
general questions. You may discuss homework and post public questions about
problems, topics, or things of general interest to the Bi1 students and course
staff. You may also post questions anonymously. The course TAs will monitor
this page with regularity and will respond to valid inquiries.


## Absences, Extensions, and Ditch Day
No absence or extension on homework will be granted without an adequate and compelling reason. All extensions require a note from a doctor or a dean

In the event that Ditch Day falls on the day that an assignment is due, the deadline will be extended to two calendar days later (i.e., if Ditch Day is on a Thursday when a problem set is due, then the revised due date will be Saturday at 1:00 pm). Any course meetings affected by Ditch Day will be resecheduled and posted on the [website home page]({{ site.baseurl }}/about).
